---
layout: post
title:  "How to test a RCE"
tags: ['reverse-shell', 'pentest-basics', 'rce']
---

## Introduction
In this post we are going to cover ways to test our potential RCE.
This is a good practice before getting the shell, if we do this test, we will test that the RCE that we found is correct and functional


## Python http server
The concept of this test is very simple, we are going to publish a site. We will inject a command wich will contain a GET request to an object on our http server.
If we see a message that says some client is sending us a GET request in our machine, we will know we have connectivity and we can inject commands.

>Note that the object in our web doesn't have to exist, the client (victim) will request some random object, and a message in our server will pop, telling us that someone (victim) is trying to get a resource that doens't exist. But we dont care about that, the point of this is test command injection and connectivity, not share objects.

We run this command to start the server in the attacker's machine
```bash
python3 -m http.server
```

The command what we have to inject in the victim's machine computer:
### Linux
```bash
wget $IP:8000/aaaa
```
### Windows
```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest -URI $IP:8000/aaaa
```

If we get any response at the server machine mean's that our RCE work's just fine.

## Hosting pings

The idea behind this test is also very simple.
We will be starting a server to listen ICMP pings.

```bash
sudo tcpdump -ni $network_interface icmp
```

In the $network_interface we have to set our current network interface (In the most cases wlan0 or eth0)


In the victimi's machine we have to inject:

### Linux
```bash
ping -c 1 $IP
```

### Windows 
```powershell
ping $IP
```

If we get any response at our server that mean's that the RCE works.






